WIP 2022 survey (#1927)
writethedocs/www: docs/surveys/salary-survey/2022.rst

.. raw:: html

   <div class="survey-results">

*****************************************
Write the Docs Salary Survey 2022 Results
*****************************************

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2
   :backlinks: none

Introduction
============ 

Now in its fourth year, the Write the Docs Salary Survey collects information from documentarians across various regions, covering not only salaries but also work environments and perspectives on job-related issues. Our aims are to assist community members in determining appropriate salary brackets, provide a reference point for future wage negotiations, and spark discussion.

> The 2022 survey accumulated data from 525 participants, including both employees and independent contractors, located in 43 nations. Although the number of responses has decreased compared to previous years (with 959 in 2021, 805 in 2020, and 649 in 2019), the information obtained remains significant, and we trust that the resulting insights will aid community members in better understanding the salary landscape.

Reviewer: suggestion: use countries instead of nations?

.. table:: Weekly hours worked (2022)
   :width: 50%
   :name: tbl-2022-weekly-hours-worked

   +--------------+-----+-------+
   | Hours worked | No. | %     |
   +==============+=====+=======+
   | 1-20 hours   |  10 | 1.9%  |
   +--------------+-----+-------+
   | 21-30 hours  |  15 | 2.9%  |
   +--------------+-----+-------+
   | 31-40 hours  | 324 | 62.4% |
   +--------------+-----+-------+
   | 41-50 hours  |  56 | 30.1% |
   +--------------+-----+-------+
   | 51-60 hours  |  10 | 1.9%  |
   +--------------+-----+-------+
   | 61+ hours    |   4 | 0.8%  |
   +--------------+-----+-------+

.. raw:: html

   <figure>
      <object role="img" aria-label="Hours worked (2022)" aria-describedby="figure-hours-worked_desc" type="image/svg+xml" data="/_images/2022-hours-worked.svg">
         <p id="figure-hours-worked_desc">Bar chart showing weekly hours worked</p>
      </object> 
      <figcaption>Figure: Hours worked (2022)</figcaption>
   </figure>

.. figure:: images/2022/2022-hours-worked.svg
   :class: hide

Job title
---------

.. raw:: html
   

>    <details><summary>What we asked</summary>

Reviewer: suggestion: not sure if the show/hide buttons serve a purpose. Maybe keep them expanded all the time? I scrolled past 3 of these before I realised we could expand them to read out the questions. Alternatively, maybe include a sentence about clicking > to expand?

Author: Added "click to expand" on the first two instances, hopefully that will make it clear enough. I put them in to make skimming easier.

      </object> 
      <figcaption>Figure: Length of time at current organization (2022)</figcaption>
   </figure>

.. figure:: images/2022/2022-time-current-organization.svg
   :class: hide

Of those 5.1% who had been in their current position for 10 or more years, around half reported a tenure between 10 and 20 years, while the other half reported a duration between 20 and 25 years. One respondent indicated they had held their current position for 31 years. 

Proportion of role related to documentation
-------------------------------------------

.. raw:: html
   
   <details><summary>What we asked</summary>

.. container:: question

   Documentation is:

   - the whole of my official job description
   - part of my official job description
   - not officially part of my job description, but I am expected to perform documentation-related tasks
   - not officially part of my job description, and I am not expected to perform documentation-related tasks, but I do anyway

   Approximately what percentage of your day-to-day tasks are documentation-related?

   - 0-25%
   - 26-50%
   - 51-75%
   - 76-100%

.. raw:: html

   </details>

> As Write the Docs is a documentation-focused community, it's not surprising that the majority of respondents (73.1% in 2022) reported that documentation makes up both their whole official job description, and most or all of their day-to-day tasks (90.3% reporting more than 51% of their daily workload). Given the cross-disciplinary nature of documentation work, it's also not surprising that a proportion of respondents also work outside of that definition, and that there are even a small number documenting "by steath": those that are not officially designated as documentation employees or not required to perform documentation-related tasks, but do anyway.

Reviewer: typo: should be "stealth" instead of "steath"

   +------------------------+-----+--------+
   | Partial                | 97  | 34.28% |
   +------------------------+-----+--------+
   | Remote (required)      | 43  | 15.19% |
   +------------------------+-----+--------+
   | On-site (required)     | 8   | 2.83%  |
   +------------------------+-----+--------+
   | On-site (not required) | 5   | 1.77%  |
   +------------------------+-----+--------+

.. raw:: html

   <figure>
      <object role="img" aria-label="Work location (affected by COVID-19) (2022)" aria-describedby="figure-work-location-affected-desc" type="image/svg+xml" data="/_images/2022-work-location-affected.svg">
         <p id="figure-work-location-affected-desc">Two donut charts showing work location, pre-COVID-19 and currently, for respondents who indicated that their workplace had been affected by the pandemic.</p>
      </object> 
      <figcaption>Figure: Work location (affected by COVID-19) (2022)</figcaption>
   </figure>

.. figure:: images/2022/2022-work-location-affected.svg
   :class: hide

47.3% of respondents in this category reported that their location change was now permanent. 

Not affected by COVID-19
------------------------

> 46.1% of respondents indicated that their current work location was unaffected by COVID-19. Of these, the majority worked remotely - 41.3% were required to be remote, and 36.8% were remote by choice. 13.6% were partially remote, and only 8.2% worked onsite (4.5% by requirement and 3.7% by choice).

Reviewer: feedback: we use onsite here, but further down, we use on-site. I prefer onsite, but whatever we use, we should be consistent.

Author: eagle eyes! I intended to standardize with on-site but missed 5 in total, have fixed :)

.. table:: Feelings about work location - unaffected by COVID-19 (2022)
   :width: 70%
   :name: tbl-2022-work-location-feelings-unaffected

   +------------------------+-----+-------+
   | Feelings               | No. | %     |
   +========================+=====+=======+
   | Very Negative          |   0 |  0.0% |
   +------------------------+-----+-------+
   | Negative               |   5 |  2.1% |
   +------------------------+-----+-------+
   | Neutral                |  13 |  5.4% |
   +------------------------+-----+-------+
   | Positive               |  64 | 26.4% |
   +------------------------+-----+-------+
   | Very Positive          | 160 | 66.1% |
   +------------------------+-----+-------+

Overall work location
---------------------

Combining the "current" work location for respondents affected by COVID-19 with the work location for those unaffected, we can put together an overall picture. 

> 68.9% of all resondents work remotely, either by choice (41.7%) or as required by their employer (27.2%). Another 24.8% work partially on-site and partially remote. Only 6.3% work completely on-site (3.6% are required to do so and 2.7% do so by choice). 

Reviewer: typo: replace "on-site" with "onsite"

   | Singapore Dollar            |  SGD | 1   |      0.725526 |
   +-----------------------------+------+-----+---------------+
   | Kenyan Shilling             |  KES | 1   |         0.008 |
   +-----------------------------+------+-----+---------------+

.. raw:: html

   </div>

Salary
------

.. raw:: html
   
   <details><summary>What we asked</summary>

.. container:: question

   What currency are you paid in?

   Would you prefer to enter your salary as a yearly or monthly amount?
   
   What is your salary (including tax)?

.. raw:: html

   </details>

Employees were given the option of entering their salary as a monthly or as a yearly figure, to cater for different countries where one or the other is the norm. Monthly salaries were multiplied by 12 in order to compare them to annual salaries. 

In 2022, 79% of employee respondents entered an annual salary figure, and 21% entered a monthly figure. 

As 95.2% of respondents reported working full-time hours (more than 30 per week), the salaries for those working part-time hours (less than 30 per week) have been omitted from the figures in this section. 

Median salary
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> The median employee salary across all regions was USD $79,506 (meaning half of all respondent earned more, and half earned less). This is lower than the overall median in 2021 and 2022 (USD $80,870 and USD $80,000 respectively) but higher than the overall median in 2019 (USD $74,500).

Reviewer 2: Small typo
```suggestion
The median employee salary across all regions was USD $79,506 (meaning half of all respondent earned more, and half earned less). This is lower than the overall median in 2021 and 2020 (USD $80,870 and USD $80,000, respectively), but higher than the overall median in 2019 (USD $74,500).
```

   | California         |  37 |         $135,000 |
   +--------------------+-----+------------------+
   | Oregon             |  15 |         $115,000 |
   +--------------------+-----+------------------+
   | Colorado           |  13 |         $110,000 |
   +--------------------+-----+------------------+
   | Texas              |  18 |          $95,000 |
   +--------------------+-----+------------------+

Median salary by gender identity
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Due to there being fewer than 10 respondents, non-binary and "other" gender identities could not be included in this section, and breakdowns by gender identity for regions other than North America and Europe are also not possible. 

Illustrating the much-discussed gender pay gap in effect, the median salary for men was 14.4% higher than the median for women in North America, and 26.7% higher in Europe.

.. table:: Median salary by gender identity - North America (2022)
   :width: 60%
   :name: tbl-2022-median-salary-by-gender-identity-north-america

   +-----------------+-----+--------------+
   | Gender identity | No. | Median (USD) |
   +=================+=====+==============+

>    | man             | 86  | $115,000     |

Reviewer: suggestion: should we capitalise this to Man and Woman?

   | Events, Event Management, Event Services, Venues, Audio/Video                                                                      | 4   | 0.4%       |
   +------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----+------------+
   | Real Estate                                                                                                                        | 3   | 0.3%       |
   +------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----+------------+
   | Legal Services                                                                                                                     | 3   | 0.3%       |
   +------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----+------------+

Location
--------

.. raw:: html
   
   <details><summary>What we asked</summary>

.. container:: question
   
   In which country is your organization based?
   
   - State, Province, Territory or Region
   - City or Town

.. raw:: html

   </details>

> 47.2% of all organizations employing survey respondents in 2022 were based in North America, with the vast majority of those in the United States (43.8% of the total, versus 3.4% for Canada). Global or Multi-national organizations accounted for the second largest proportion, 25.7%. European countries account for another 20%.

Reviewer: typo: we use Multinational later in the table, which I prefer to "Multi-national"

Introduction
============ 

Now in its fourth year, the Write the Docs Salary Survey collects information from documentarians across various regions, covering not only salaries but also work environments and perspectives on job-related issues. Our aims are to assist community members in determining appropriate salary brackets, provide a reference point for future wage negotiations, and spark discussion.

> The 2022 survey accumulated data from 525 participants, including both employees and independent contractors, located in 43 nations. Although the number of responses has decreased compared to previous years (with 959 in 2021, 805 in 2020, and 649 in 2019), the information obtained remains significant, and we trust that the resulting insights will aid community members in better undertanding the salary landscape.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The 2022 survey accumulated data from 525 participants, including both employees and independent contractors, located in 43 nations. Although the number of responses has decreased compared to previous years (with 959 in 2021, 805 in 2020, and 649 in 2019), the information obtained remains significant, and we trust that the resulting insights will aid community members in better understanding the salary landscape.
```

   +----------------------------+-----+-------+
   | Technical Writing Manager  |   8 |  1.5% |
   +----------------------------+-----+-------+
   | Associate Technical Writer |   7 |  1.3% |
   +----------------------------+-----+-------+
   | Documentation Specialist   |   7 |  1.3% |
   +----------------------------+-----+-------+
   | Technical Writer II        |   7 |  1.3% |
   +----------------------------+-----+-------+
   | Technical Writer I         |   6 |  1.1% |
   +----------------------------+-----+-------+
   | Technical Editor           |   6 |  1.1% |
   +----------------------------+-----+-------+

.. raw:: html

   <figure>
      <object role="img" aria-label="Job title wordcloud (2022)" aria-describedby="figure-job-title-wordcloud_desc" type="image/svg+xml" data="/_images/2022-job-titles-wordcloud.svg">
         <p id="figure-job-title-wordcloud-desc">Job title wordcloud</p>
      </object> 
      <figcaption>Figure: Job title wordcloud (2022)</figcaption>
   </figure>

.. figure:: images/2022/2022-job-titles-wordcloud.svg
   :class: hide

Type of role
------------

.. container:: question
   
   .. rubric:: What we asked

>    How would you categorize your role? If your wear multiple hats, select all options that apply.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   How would you categorize your role? If you wear multiple hats, select all options that apply.
```

   +------------------------+-----+-------+

.. raw:: html

   <figure>
      <object role="img" aria-label="Team breakdown (2022)" aria-describedby="figure-team-breakdown_desc" type="image/svg+xml" data="/_images/2022-team-breakdown.svg">
         <p id="figure-team-breakdown_desc">Team breakdown (2022)</p>
      </object> 
      <figcaption>Figure: Team breakdown (2022)</figcaption>
   </figure>

.. figure:: images/2022/2022-team-breakdown.svg
   :class: hide

Length of time at current organization
--------------------------------------

.. container:: question
   
   .. rubric:: What we asked

   How long have you worked at your current organization?
   
   Note:
   Please select the length of time for your position at your current organization only – your total years of experience in documentation will be covered in the individual demographics section. If you have changed roles at the same organization, please select the length of time that you have been in your current role.

   - Less than 1 year
   - More than 1 year but less than 2 years
   - More than 2 years but less than 5 years
   - More than 5 years but less than 10 years
   - More than 10 years

> Reflecting an increasingly volatile job market, 36.8% of respondents reported being employed at their current organization for less than one year. This marks a significant increase from 31.7% in 2021, 26% in 2020, and just 9% in 2019. Notably, this year marks the first time since the inception of the survey that the number of individuals in new positions exceeds those who have held their current job for a medium-term or extended duration.    

Reviewer 3: Inception feels mildly odd here. Since we've been running the survey?
Also double "this marks" and it isn't really the year that marks the first time. 

```suggestion
Reflecting an increasingly volatile job market, 36.8% of respondents reported being employed at their current organization for less than one year. This is a significant increase from 31.7% in 2021, 26% in 2020, and just 9% in 2019. Notably, it is the first time since the survey began that the number of individuals in new positions exceeds those who have held their current job for a medium-term or extended duration.    
```

   +--------------------------------------+-----+-------+
   | Portion of role                      | No. | %     |
   +======================================+=====+=======+
   | Wholly documentation                 | 384 | 73.1% |
   +--------------------------------------+-----+-------+
   | Partly documentation                 | 126 | 24.0% |
   +--------------------------------------+-----+-------+
   | Not documentation, but it's expected | 12  | 2.3%  |
   +--------------------------------------+-----+-------+
   | Not documentation, and not expected  | 3   | 0.6%  |
   +--------------------------------------+-----+-------+

.. table:: Portion of role actually documentation-related (2022)
   :width: 80%
   :name: tbl-2022-portion-of-role-actually-documentation-related

   +-----------------+-----+-------+
   | Portion of role | No. | %     |
   +=================+=====+=======+
   | 76%-100%        | 293 | 55.8% |
   +-----------------+-----+-------+
   | 51%-75%         | 160 | 30.5% |
   +-----------------+-----+-------+
   | 26%-50%         | 47  | 9.0%  |
   +-----------------+-----+-------+
   | 0-25%           | 25  | 4.8%  |
   +-----------------+-----+-------+

> Interestingly, of the respondents who indicated that documentation was the whole of their official job description, 31% reported spending less than three quarters of their daily work time on documentation, with 5% reporting less than half their time. 

Reviewer 3: This is more expected than interesting (to me). I wonder how we can dig into this next year?

Author: it's almost a separate survey in itself :)

   | Japanese Yen           | JPY  | 0.007657      | 1   |
   +------------------------+------+---------------+-----+
   | South Korean Wan       | KRW  | 0.0008        | 1   |
   +------------------------+------+---------------+-----+
   | New Taiwan Dollar      | TWD  | 0.0333        | 1   |
   +------------------------+------+---------------+-----+
   | Swiss Franc            | CHF  | 1.048015      | 1   |
   +------------------------+------+---------------+-----+
   | Serbian Dinar          | RSD  | 0.0089        | 1   |
   +------------------------+------+---------------+-----+
   | Icelandic Krona        | ISK  | 0.0073        | 1   |
   +------------------------+------+---------------+-----+
   | Singapore Dollar       | SGD  | 0.725526      | 1   |
   +------------------------+------+---------------+-----+
   | Kenyan Shilling        | KES  | 0.008         | 1   |
   +------------------------+------+---------------+-----+

Salary
------

.. container:: question
   
   .. rubric:: What we asked

   What currency are you paid in?

   Would you prefer to enter your salary as a yearly or monthly amount?
   
   What is your salary (including tax)?

> Employees were given the option of entering their salary as a monthly or as a yearly figure, to cater for different countries where one or the other is the norm. Monthly salaries were multipled by 12 in order to compare them to annual salaries. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Employees were given the option of entering their salary as a monthly or as a yearly figure, to cater for different countries where one or the other is the norm. Monthly salaries were multiplied by 12 in order to compare them to annual salaries. 
```

Median salary
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The median employee salary across all regions was USD $79,506 (meaning half of all respondent earned more, and half earned less). This is lower than the overall median in 2021 and 2022 (USD $80,870 and USD $80,000 respectively) but higher than the overall median in 2019 (USD $74,500).

Median salary by respondent region
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Given the range of socio-economic differences in the countries in the survey results, median salary figures broken down by country of residence of employee is more useful than overall median salary.

In order to protect the privacy of respondents, median salaries are not shown for any country or region with less than 10 respondents. Countries excluded by this condition are:

- Armenia
- Belarus
- Belgium
- Brazil
- Croatia
- Czech Republic
- Estonia
- Finland
- France
- Greece
- Hungary
- Iceland
- Ireland
- Italy
- Japan
- Kazakhstan
- Netherands
- New Zealand
- Norway
- Poland
- Portugal
- Serbia
- Singapore
- Slovenia
- South Africa
- South Korea
- Spain
- Sweden
- Switzerland
- Taiwan

> - Ukraine

Reviewer 3: If these sample sizes are so small, is there any danger that listing the countries actually deanonimizes the result?

Author: I don't think so, because none of the salary figures or demographic data is linked to any individual country (or region in the case of regions with only a handful of responses). I put this in there as a kind of shout out/acknowledgement of all the respondents from countries and regions that aren't otherwise mentioned in the report.

   - Stocks, shares, stock options, or equity
   - Commission or bonus payments
   - Professional development / ongoing education / conference budget
   - Meals, meal vouchers, or food-related benefits
   - Gym, fitness, sport, or other wellness-related benefits
   - Transportation-related benefits (company car, public transport passes, parking, fuel vouchers or reimbursements for any transport-related cost)
   - Home office or co-working office budget (including for laptops or other equipment)
   - Phone and/or internet-related benefits or reimbursements
   - None of the above
   - Other (please specify)

A small number of respondents (4.1, representing 20 individuals) indicated that they did not receive any of the listed benefits.

.. table:: Benefits (2022)
   :width: 100%
   :name: tbl-2022-employee-benefits

   +-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----+-------+
   | Benefit                                                                                                                                         | No. | %     |

>    +=================================================================================================================================================+=====+=======+

Reviewer 3: What are the asterisks?

Author: Good catch, they're ones that are "above any goverment-mandated minimums", I will add that note.
